The main character of Ama Ata Aidoo’s short story, “No Sweetness Here” is Chicha. Chicha is an educated woman who acts as a schoolhouse teacher for the children in her village. To readers, she appears to have several Western characteristics that separate her from the Overall, I believe that in No Sweetness Here, Ama Ata Aidoo is focusing on the mistreatment of wives in than Ghanaian culture. Chicha is the main character and narrartor of the story.  She is a school teacher in her town and is particularly close to her favorite student’s mother, Maami.  In the beginning of the story you are introduced to Kwesi as a very beautiful boy although he was such a young age.  He was very special to both Chicha and Maami.
Sadly, Chicha had to witness the poor treatment the mother and son received from the father.  He was never around, and you would expect him to be around because Maami was his first wife.  After the poor treatment and neglect, they ended up getting a divorce and Kwesi was then given to his father.  His father was never an active figure in his life, so why would they give custody to him?  Maami could not bear the pain of being separated from her son, especially when they are separated forever.
This story underlines the poor treatment of women in Ghana.  Ama Ata Aidoo really portrayed the pain these women go through in this story particularaly.  Chicha almost symbolizes us as readers looking into a typical relationship of their culture.  Not only were Maami and Kwesi neglected, but they were also separated.  We saw that happen, just as Chicha did.  As soon as the snake bit Kwesi, it was all over for Maami.  Who else could she have gone to? Her son was first taken away, and then killed.  She was left alone, hopeless, with no man to comfort here anymore. While the story highlights the overall terrible pedestal women are held upon in Ghanaian society I feel this story beautiful represents Greek tragedy in the styles of African writing. The fact that this woman who has nothing at all, witnesses the cruel act as the universe that blankets her very world. As her son is bit by this snake, her very future, the one small glimpse of hope she has that he could remain in her life is quickly extinguished.  The snake itself could have represented the very same idea that managed to change the outcomes of both Adam & Eve in the Garden of Eden. The view of this snake to this individual is the idea of evil, shaking this woman to her very foundation and questioning what exactly could she have done to have had this horrible effect of life crashing down upon her. Does anyone deserve this kind of treatment that God could lay out for an individual? When does Jehovah pump the breaks, or is this all fate?
